h1. Rubber Generate

h2. v0.0.20
 
Template language for generating Ruby bindings for C libraries
by Geoff Youngs <g@intersect-uk.co.uk>

h3. Introduction

A simple ruby-style bindings generator for Ruby.  It allows bindings to 
be laid out in a Ruby style, documentation to be included inline and 
explicit type casts within C code.  It's somewhere between SWIG and pyrex.

It also allows features extconf.rb creation, including checks for headers,
pkg-config etc.  The modules it creates currently depend on Ruby/GTK, but
it is planned to remove this dependency unless they genuinely require Ruby/GTK.

Other features include custom named type-maps, pre/post code inclusion within
functions and some rudimentary understanding of C code.

h3. Changes
 * 0.0.20 - 31st Jul 2013
   - Auto-scan loaded gems for missing headers
   - Add support for %include_dir gem:foo or gem:foo/path/in/gem

 * 0.0.19 - 17th June 2013
   - Ruby 1.9 changes arguments for rb_num_coerce_cmp() - fixed.

 * 0.0.18 - 16th Nov 2012
   - Fixes for finding ruby-gnome2 header in gems
   - Improved error reporting

 * 0.0.17 - 16th Nov 2012
   - Ruby 1.9 fixes

 * 0.0.16 - 20th Oct 2011
   - Add GCC pragma to reduce warnings on unused variables

 * 0.0.15 - 18th Oct 2011
   - Add support for scanning gem directories for ruby-gnome2 headers
   - Fix missing fileutils dependency

 * 0.0.14 - 18th Oct 2011
   - Add define_on_self to genum (allow constants to be defined within submodule rather than on parent module/class)

 * 0.0.13 - 5th May 2011
   - Bug fix for gcpool

 * 0.0.12 - 3rd May 2011
   - Add support for uint64 conversion

 * 0.0.11 - 27th Apr 2011
   - Fix parsing of %min-version numbers

 * 0.0.10 - 27th Apr 2011
   - Add --install flag

 * 0.0.9 - 31st May 2010
   - Add support for --build-dir <DIR> switch to specify output directory

 * 0.0.8 - 10th May 2010
   - Add support for %min-version <MAJOR>.<MINOR>.<MICRO>

 * 0.0.7 - 7th May 2010
   - Add support for array constants (including autmatic type detection) - e.g array <ConstantName> = [ "Text", NULL, 3 ]
   - Add syntax_error function to parser which reports slightly more helpful syntax error messages for a .cr file
   - Add tracking of code location so that C compiler throws errors which refer to the original line in the .cr file
   - Add support for GSList{type} or GList{type} conversion to arrays as return values for functions

 * 0.0.6 - 6th May 2010
   - Flags class allows wrapping a bit field with slightly more information.  Plus automatic conversion to/from ruby and support for integer values.

h3. Dependencies

 * Ruby 1.8 / Ruby 1.9 / Ruby 2.0

h3. Example

Sample file:

 * example/vte.cr

Usage:
<pre>
  $ rubber-generate --generate --build --install vte.cr
</pre>

Which should generate
  [arch]/vte.c      <- Source code for extension
  [arch]/vte.rd     <- RD documentation from vte.cr
  [arch]/extconf.rb <- Config script
  [arch]/vte.o      <- Object file
  [arch]/vte.so     <- Compiled extension

h3. Installation

<pre>
  $ sudo gem install rubber-generate
</pre>

h3. Credits

Author: Geoff Youngs

Contributors: 
 * Vincent Isambart
